Childrens Mountain Bike

For all the adventurous children out there we offer either a 20? wheel bike or a 24? wheel bike.

Our children’s bikes are a mixture of Saracen and Adventure.  Most of the children’s bikes have front suspension, v-brakes and all have at least 7 gears.  When you arrive with us at the center, we will make sure that we fit your child to the bike that fits them the best, and that they are confident riding it.  (If these are not the correct size for your children then you will either require a tag-a-long or an adults XS bike.)  We will go through how to use the brakes and the gears, and allow them to test the bikes before they take them onto the trail.

Most families enjoy riding on the off-road gravel tracks around the forest, but please be ready to walk with your youngsters up some of the hills!

HALF DAY £15               
FULL DAY £20



Electric Mountain Bike 

The electric bikes are a fun way to explore the forest on the gravel track trails.  With a motor that assists you when you pedal, they make ascending the hills a lot easier.  They make the uphills feel more like flat, and makes the forest accessible for lots more people.  Whether you want to explore more of the forest as you will still have the energy after the uphills, or wish to keep up with the family.  And you still get a workout if you want, as each bike allows you to change the amount of assistance the bike offers you, making it easier or harder whenever you want!

We highly recommend hiring an electric bike if you plan to tow a children’s trailer, as it makes the experience more enjoyable.

HALF DAY £35               
FULL DAY £45




Fullsuspension mountain bike

With a full suspension bike, you can explore all the trails the forest has to offer.  With front and rear suspension, which we set up specially for you before you set off, they make travelling over the rocky tracks much easier and more comfortable.

With the rear suspension absorbing hits, your body doesn’t get pounded as hard by the trail. For long rides in particular, this means you’ll finish feeling a lot less beat up. So if you intend to spend a full day on the trails then thsi bike would be a good choice.

HALF DAY £40               
FULL DAY £50



Hybrid bike

A hybrid is exactly what it sounds like – a mix of a road bike and a mountain bike. The result is a bicycle that's suitable for general-purpose riding over various types of terrain, which is why most hybrids tend to be used for commuting.

Some hybrids are closer to mountain bikes than road bikes and others fall closer to the tarmac side of things. Our bikes fall somewhere in the middle which eans our bikes are ideal for some gentle off road mixed with tarmac. These bikes are ideal for family days out which allow for a little off raod excitment. 

HALF DAY £20               
FULL DAY £30



Hardtail

Hardtail mountain bikes are a lot like Marmite: You either love them, or you hate them. The short and skinny is that a hardtail bike is really just that, it’s a bike with a hard tail. Impact absorbing suspension is only fitted to the front of the bike, while the rear end is fixed.

A Hardtail Mountain Bike is the bike to choose to explore most of the trails and forestry tracks that wehave to offer, and is a minimum requirement if you wish to explore the North Face Trail or Bridleways.


HALF DAY £25               
FULL DAY £35



Road Bike
A bicycle for use on paved roads as opposed to rough terrain or racing tracks, especially one designed for competitive cycling. These bikes are ideal for the miles of open road exiting within the Borders. Take a short hike down to the coastline to visit St Ninian's Cave - a place of retreat and prayer for Scotland's first saint, who set up his church in Whithorn in 397 AD.

HALF DAY £25               
FULL DAY £35